voice okay
um
[Music]
how about now is it better now
cool cool um so is anyone using
any hardware um like the raspberry pi
that we gave out
that didn't come to class today or is if
you just put in the chat
um that would be useful because there's
just a workaround that i just need to
give you
no okay um so
does anyone have any questions uh
besides
man yacht sorry i don't know how to
pronounce your name um i'll get i'll get
to you in your
personal teams afterwards but just any
quick questions
um does anyone have
anyone struggling in their areas any
questions about their
project
no all right um i'll stay in this zoom
uh if you've got any questions for the
assignment
is it okay to use oh is this your um
email that you sent joshua because i
thought negan might have got back to you
okay all right um let me just i'll
reply to your email um i'll have a look
at it um i thought negan might have got
back to you but if she hasn't then i'll
just have a look at it
um and i'll send you an email within the
next
couple of minutes um yeah i'll have a
look
should double check what you wrote um
anyone else got any questions about what
they're doing
or otherwise if you add me in teams and
you've got a high level diagram
i can go through that just to make sure
that your project's on track
specifically the software ones
those are the ones that will probably
need a bit of clarifying if you're not
confident
um otherwise feel free to leave the zoom
i don't say anything extra i'm just here
to answer questions if you've got them
i'll stay in this zoom for the next two
hours in case you want to come back on
um
but otherwise yeah feel free to ask your
questions to me via teams because it's a
lot easier to ask your individual
questions that
side um
cool
okay
hello
oh
get okay
oh wow
sorry
um i've enabled screen sharing so if you
want to start to go through it
uh ready to go
hello
i cannot hear you um
one second
hello
can you try speaking now hello
yeah okay cool i can hear you um how do
you pronounce your name by the way i
don't know i don't even want to
attempt you can just call me manny
okay all right that's a lot easier yeah
um can you screen [__]
cool so i'm just going to go through the
labs because honestly i've tried
everything
i'm just going to start from scratch yep
um
yeah see i've got the virtualbox and
stuff so it's all set up
yep
we can skip all this if oh i know you so
you did your group number
yeah but i just like i deleted the
entire consecutive thing i'm starting
again
oh okay you want to go through it just
knocking it out yeah
because like you shouldn't be that long
i guess uh
i don't know what's wrong yeah yeah
i'm it's probably gonna like to be
honest it's probably gonna take me
um like some time my own time to
actually go through it and see what's
missing
because i've got up to that point um but
i mean i'm happy to try and
work it out with you now but there's
yeah i guarantee you better to give
yourself an answer
just yet yeah that's fine we'll give it
a go
yeah the only thing that i didn't do um
that was like in this guide was i
misread
this instruction and i put just channel
five instead of channel 16.
um yeah that shouldn't matter but you
don't clash with somebody else
yeah exactly so i like it just has to be
on the same channel with the
sensor and the launchpad so i don't know
yeah i would affect anything but i'm
just going to do it anyway i don't think
it's good
yeah yeah good to go back because i had
a meeting with my team and
that's the only thing they could pick up
that was different from the guide
yeah yeah
is that it
me
oh yeah
[Music]
it's pretty much given a tutorial for
everyone else who wants to watch it
how did you go with burning the image
yeah i mean everything worked
i i like because i'm on mac so i had to
use a windows vm
to phone it uh all right
yeah gotcha
[Music]
so if you're doing all this what's your
other group members doing what's the
what's the project
that you're trying to follow the same
the the one the labs are
well yeah we're trying to do that so
one guy's in china and he's
like once like the thing is i'm like the
hardware dude i meant to set up the vnt
server
here so people can connect to it yeah
gotcha um
and then they can start programming
but i can't even do that yeah right
can they not just use um
can they not just program the dashboard
without the data yet
i guess i mean i know it's not much but
i guess they're not fully backlogged
because it kind of makes sense why
you're trying to knock this out so they
continued
yeah um i mean you could but i think we
all just want to
start with node red and see how it works
yeah okay
good idea because everything was gonna
be in javascript anyway
yeah so yeah oh good
excuse does your bi-directional work on
your vm too
yeah it does nice do you have any
problems with that that was fine
first go uh yeah that was fine i just
had to install the
guest editions um lucky here
yeah there's a way to do it it's not you
don't install it from
the file you have to um
yeah you have to insert this image here
while it's running
yeah yeah and then it prompts you in the
vm yeah
yeah sometimes it doesn't work though
it's on windows i know at least
that's what happened on the last week's
lab it was very hit and miss
with different people's laptops and take
three times and it would suddenly work
keep going how do you um
does ti have a mac
a programmer no it doesn't
so how do you burn in a windows vm
oh okay yeah
yeah uh do you have
do you um and how do you uh
serial into your
um like launch pad and stuff
do you use putty in the vm or do you
yeah so just to test that it's actually
running yeah yeah so you make sure you
can just double check the channel i do
that from
the windows vm yep um and you can also
do that from the raspberry pi itself
yeah yeah
now uh
i'm not sure if this because isn't this
bluetooth
low energy um
i don't know yeah but i wouldn't that
off but i wouldn't
wait were you asking isn't it bluetooth
low energy
yeah like why are we turning it off
because we're not using bluetooth
so how is the so the issue we had is how
does the sensor
tag uh communicate with the launchpad uh
it's
over the um six load fan
um protocol let me see if i can sign up
the link but
like there's no ins like the issue we
had is there's no instructions on how to
get it to
recognize it like it wasn't recognizing
it so
because i what you're doing is you're
setting
the channel for
[Music]
um i think it's setting the channel
for anything rf is the above part
and then you set the channel on both the
slip radio
and the sensor tag right
yeah and see how you're defining all as
one
blow that all the things is below as one
yeah so i think the way it works is
you enable them to one because they're
on you set the channel
so know what channel to search for and
both the sensor tag and
the launch pad and then the demo
handles everything else in the back end
so there's all this firmware is what's
dealing with it all
you're just configuring what channel
it's on and what protocol you want to
transmit on
which is why you've got those other ones
okay i mean let's see how it goes
absolute worst case that um if i can't
work it out
is um the lab tutor from last semester
uh has offered to like help with any
problems along the way and he's already
got everything working so
there's all right i don't need to sweat
i can always ask him at the very back
end of it
just when i'm trying to doubt myself
leave him out of it if i can
yeah so ble is a different type of
network and then six left hand is its
own network type
yeah now i'm just wondering because like
it wasn't recognizing it would slow down
so i just didn't know
like what to do yeah yeah i was trying
everything
yeah of course keep trying to
find it down
um
[Music]
yeah macbook air or pro uh
pro all right
i don't know if this
yeah i think i didn't install the guest
additions for this
oh good i don't think anyone else is
asking anything yet so
stage is yours
okay
[Music]
so
what did you do with your pie did you
leave the same configurations as before
or have you hardwired the ethically yeah
i re-imaged it to the image that was
posted on teams
right so right now it's got no network
nothing i understand like yeah i've set
up the
network for my own wi-fi but okay
i just like damaged it they have that
tool um
they have a new tool called raspberry pi
image yeah yeah
yeah i've got that i wasn't sure if
you're just you
like but you know how all the other labs
tell you to run like the um
low pan network and set that up if you
um configured all of that or if you're
going from square one again with the
raspberry pi stuff as well
i've already done that but i mean we can
see when i get to that part i mean
again but yeah
[Music]
foreign
uh
i think if this doesn't work i think i
just logged into my email
on the windows one yeah
that's good it's just the bi-directional
thing you have a problem with
yeah yeah
because i don't think i got it to work
on windows i just
couldn't be bothered i just logged into
my email
wait what did you do
sorry you logged into your email
yeah ah
gotcha and then you downloaded it from
your email yeah yeah
uh-huh okay that's a good idea
so
[Music]
all right so now
to eye sorry
open it up it's just a ti programmer
open it up
flash the
yeah you remove the battery from the
sensor tag put a debugger on it
uh not yet i'll do the launch pad first
okay
we don't have to keep all the packaging
for things right can we just throw that
oh keep it for now
i i'm going i don't i would think that
[__] will probably want to back this
probably doesn't want a
pot of just random nodes
everywhere especially using the semester
semester um
but then again she probably should
clarify that
yeah i would think so too um
that's our fault for not
mentioning it but just keep them for now
until i find out for you
[Music]
how do you plan to get this data
online remotely
so if you create if you create a node
red server right
yeah it's going to be
so you have your you have your low pen
network
and then your the sense so imagine you
could calculate
uh 12 degrees on the sensor tag and the
sensor tag is going to send that
to the launchpad
via lopen and then it's going to
go via serial to the raspberry pi which
is running
the node-red server and it's going to go
up to the node-red server
all right fine
but yeah for right now that
server is only local to
that network that wi-fi network
so yes so only
yeah i think i anyway
like if we because is it a requirement
to deploy this or is it
like uh like no no no no no no no it's
not a problem to deploy
it's just it's just a problem for how
are
your um teammates who are overseas
going to access your local server
oh sir well they have vnc straight into
it so they can just
remotely control the desktop and um
that has a server on it oh they're gonna
be
oh they're gonna oh they're gonna
remotely be into the
okay yeah so i have it set up here yeah
oh oh nice
damn you're ahead yeah you're efficient
so yeah okay that's fine i was just i
was just curious to how you were doing
that
yeah um but if we really need to deploy
it for some reason like
if it actually has to be like an app or
something then we can just deploy the
node server
yeah or something yeah that's not the
case i just wasn't sure
like if it's something you thought of
because that would be a problem
um if you just expect it to be on like
type in there
like then type in the ip address and
it's not there
like what yeah i'm not i'm not actually
folding this because that's yeah pretty
unsecure so i'm just going through a
cloud server instead
i'm not uh locally portfolio from my
router
yeah they all have their own cloud
accounts which can connect to the
raspberry pi yeah that's cool
that's pretty much it
cool yep and
so i'll just reset it so it shows up
again
yeah so you can see the channel was 16
16.
cool everything was just fine
yeah keep going
yeah yeah you sent the tag okay
so yeah make sure you take the battery
out and
debug header on
i mean the batteries won't work anyway
if you leave that plastic thing
yeah yeah yeah
just really sure i'm pretty sure someone
might have been here
someone earlier um
pulled out the plastic tab just because
i don't know
i mean i pulled it out when i was
testing it but you can put it back
yeah yeah that's what i wasn't sure put
it back in
it's always good to pull it out just in
case they are actually contacting
because you can't be sure
the plastics in properly if it's
connected anywhere in there
that we'll be using if it is on there
there is an led so you can like
see cool
and there's a power button as well so
these
oh my it's my life
my bad okay
[Music]
can our image support wireless
connection
um what what image are you talking about
are you talking about
the raspberry pi image how
are you talking to me no i don't know
someone's gonna chat understand
questions um can it
yeah because you're you're
not actually wirelessly connecting with
the raspberry pi you're wirelessly
connecting to the sensor tag with the
um wait do you have the hardware do you
pick up the launchpad and the sensor tag
how
yeah okay so your center you're you're
putting uh as many as doing now you're
putting the firmware
onto the um sensor tag and the launchpad
and that firmware
pre-configures the rf lopen network
so rf is like the way it's communicating
the six load pan
so it's like a low-power wireless
network um
and then that that way it's being
wirelessly
transmitted low power and then you're
accessing that low power network
um using your raspberry pi on a server
um so that image should have all the the
idea that image has as it has
all the configurations fit for the low
power network
um that's what the six load pen thing is
does that make sense
maybe you might do some good looking up
how
uh like six lowpan networks work
[Music]
you could as in you could try doing it
on the raspberry pi first
or you could try looking it up
videos going yep so it says 16
that's good yeah yep uh yeah you can
you can try first um did you
uh yeah you're welcome to try first
did you put the image on there because
to put the image on there there's a few
steps you've got to take i've dropped a
file
in if you go to the teams
the general team then click files and
then go to class materials
and i wrote setup problems and then if
you scroll down to the bottom of setup
problems i wrote how you
install um the image onto
the sd card which you need to do like
your own you need to install the what
the image
the wireless image another while you
need to install the image that negan has
provided in the teams
not your own image because it's missing
a few files
that makes sense
the image is already in the sd card yeah
that image is
that image is that the image you got
from negan that she uploaded or not
because the default image that already
comes with the kit is wrong
you need to have somebody this other
image has a bunch of pre-installed files
that's whoever
ran this subject a couple of like a year
or two ago configured
and that's what this subject's based on
on some of those files that are on
that image it's like somebody's copied
their hard drive and then uploaded it
you can't just use the default raspbian
image that's already on the sd card you
need to
remove that and put this new one on
there otherwise it won't work
does your pie connected to your home
network
ready uh yeah yeah okay yeah
yeah so we do not need to upload
no you do need to upload the image in
sms teams
you have to the i'm just saying the
default image that comes with your
raspberry pi kit
because it's already like when you buy
that kit and you plug it into your
raspberry pi it already comes with a
an operating system but that's wrong you
need to delete that
that image and you need to put the one
that's been uploaded in ms teams
cool just um if i'm not online
here how and you get stuck or something
um just
at me and teams i'll get back to you as
soon as i can if it's after this class
um but yeah most i wrote a couple of
steps
for it in that file that's in the files
tab universe teams
called setup
okay
hmm
is your launch uh launch pad connected
to your raspberry pi
yeah yeah cool
yeah i i just use um
because the com ports are different on
raspberry pi
yep
oh that's what you opened up yeah and
then if you click the reset button it
shows up the uh
yeah yeah i saw it before yeah yeah cool
cool
i just thought that might have been
party on your windows vm i didn't
realize you were doing it through
yeah yeah
okay
so
seeing not defined
this wasn't the issue you had before was
it no
no
see
the 251 line oh yeah
it doesn't matter anyway
they have a line count the bottom right
hand corner there
yeah okay
oh yeah okay yeah i typed this in before
never mind oh is that your previous
node.js stuff that you've written yeah
we were just trying to edit the file
because we were trying to uncomment this
console log
yeah to see what was going on yeah go
jump in there okay
i don't know if i have uh yeah this was
the issue
so this is the original that you just
copied uh this
is the original but we just uncommented
that one line here so we could see what
was in the table
yeah so this one should work
yeah see that let's see that's the issue
now so this is the sensor table
and there's no motes in it for some
reason this one says like in the guide
it says that there's a mode now my
my center tail is off but i'll get to
week 6 lab and then i'll show you
yeah where it makes you in yeah with the
battery and see how we go
yeah uh
how how about have you just maybe just
try
um uh
stopping the server on the the low hand
server
um and uh plugging the battery in and
just see if we get
did you see if you can get a mode appear
at that stage like by plugging the
battery in and checking the sensor tag
before you continue on
yeah nothing came up so if i stop that
and then yeah plug it in
because there's an app as well that you
can um
configure this like you can see the
real-time sensor data in the
in an app like on your phone yeah yeah
but it doesn't
find it on that either like i don't know
why
if the phone configure is the phone
can relying on the ble
yeah so this was before i like changed
the uh right this is before i flashed
the firmware
right did i have default firmware on it
that the upset i haven't seen the app
yeah yeah so like you know we had to
turn off the le like the billiard was
enabled for that yeah like in the
default firmware
all right so the sensor tag is on okay
cool let's put her back up
and
wait what cool
oh
if this shows up and that would be
i mean i'm not i mean i don't see
everything you've done everything the
same then i doubt it'll show up
just a good double check now because
then
we encounter an error with
is that what you configured later on
i think yeah let's go to the next one
because let me do all this first um
because i think that's that
is your server still running from before
when you ran it like that is that the
problem you're trying to rewrite over
the like the
co-app server did you end the other
session
yeah it's it's okay yeah okay
okay so that's our um
address yes
okay
so that table that we saw
in the console log which is this
that is actually the sensor table oh
wait
hold on why does this show up now um
i would maybe maybe because
um maybe because
we ran the server to start with the node
running
but i've done that before like
anything i really changed was the
channel
mate yes did you what was your channel
before it was five
for group five yeah doesn't it doesn't
it have to be 11 or higher
i don't know that's what i was thinking
because it's like i think it said 11
and then plus whatever so i think that
might be the problem
yeah but i researched online and i
couldn't find anything like
why like why is it 11 so
and maybe it would yeah well that looks
like
i mean i don't know who's written that
firmware that's
i don't know who's written that library
so that would be
yeah um probably a place to start to
play out why but regardless
the hell yeah excuse me so now that this
works
i think there's a way to get the
data data look you haven't got a fan in
the comments someone was actually
watching the whole way through
the shin who's my teammate
oh yeah all right well he's definitely a
fan but it says there you got packets
coming up
oh there we go okay cool look at that
my job here is done your job here is
done you can pass it off now pretty much
get the mqtt server going
that's cool where's the light okay let
me cover this
with my let's loading
okay i'll just cover it in my hand and
see if it drops
what happened there still loading
i don't know maybe you're blocking the
antenna it's only low power
so i just hover your hand above the top
of the sensor rather than covering it in
a ball in your hand
okay let's see
um possibly go back
to see if the sentence is still
connected
uh refresh yeah
no we're here
okay let me put it back i put my
flashlight on it
yeah let me put my flashlight on it okay
now let's go back
there we go 522 okay yeah
anyway that seems to be there's still
i still need to find out how to get this
in real time but i think let's go to the
next tutorial i think it says in that i
think that's the point that's the point
of node red
because you're gonna you're gonna funnel
the data and
experiment because you can see if you go
to what page you're in before you're on
some
where was it traffic or something or
status maybe status
you're on a page where we had like a
list of
impossibilities that scroll down
the status wasn't status you're on
statistics
yeah so you can see all the packets that
are being like
spent so you're getting a lot of packets
so
i'd assume unless that's from
oh here we go oh that's from the launch
pad right yeah okay
yeah yeah so so you're getting like
there's there's a lot of things
funneling in
it's just this is just not a way to it's
not a real time
um it's not a reactive uh script running
in the browser yeah yeah so
you um if you get to know red that'll be
real time
yeah oh wait
no i think i think that's just like
packet related stuff possibly oh
upstream downstream oh yeah
yeah get get no uh node red
going and then you can funnel it into it
um and that'll be real time
because that's a reactive framework
but nice work yeah
so that was that i mean i didn't help
you just did it again
so is that all you were stuck pretty
much what you got stuck on yeah
pretty much i mean i guess it was just
the channel
i i don't know why it has to be above
eleven well maybe
like um yeah i don't know either there's
probably a reason for it i mean
you could possibly try and find who made
you'd have maybe go to the actual
yeah that and then go to issues that's
where i'd have a look
uh i think i saw
oh that's the i triple e the ieee's
minimum standard is 11.
i think oh there you go because max is
26. yeah
okay that makes sense because i saw a
lot of guides online that said
uh like they had their channel set to 25
and
they didn't explain why yeah okay so it
was just a channel issue
okay yeah
okay then so we have everything that
happened
um check him
out yeah
that's good news yeah
yeah the group's going to be happy with
you
then you can be less stressed because
you can just palm it off now pretty much
once you just get this last bit going
i mean i really want to play with node
red it seems interesting
yeah sorry i was just gonna say it's
like it's it's really fun to play with
the flow works are quite like
interactive um
that's a good way to be it's actually
quite the ability to do quite complex
stuff
um with this simple flow state it's
really easy to see it and so especially
if you get into your own mini projects
like if you ever want to do something
like this like it's it's quite
like once you know the basics of what
you expect to happen and how it works
you know that's exactly what i was going
to say like i'm planning to buy
an arduino after this object um
yeah and i have like
like some aquariums in my room
i want to build like an automated fish
feeder
kind of thing where it like drops thin
food every have you ever done
electronics
before have you done electronics before
any other electronic subjects
not at uni but i took it in high school
oh yeah right
okay yeah i mean if you've got this
party you'd have enough skills to get
that up and running the arduino
so that'd be good i was looking at um
have you heard about latte panda well i
think panda
it's like a windows um it's like a
windows
single board computer with a
co-processor for arduino
so you have like all the gpio ports and
it's also windows which is cool
so interesting well what's is that i
would assume that's
what a competitor to a raspberry pi
because the raspberry pi has got yeah
yeah like windows beefed up yeah it's
like super
like you can run like people using like
even
bitcoin mining if you want oh it is
beefed up i'm just on the website now
yeah like these are the basic ones but
then they have like these ones as well
so one sec i'm just opening up oh you're
on it oh yeah oh wow
yeah these are the basic ones yeah
it has a few gpio stuff well how
expensive are they
uh they just like we took ballpark yeah
look at that
yeah right it is a solid piece of
unit yeah but the basic ones are like
yeah like 200 yeah yeah
it's much more powerful i think yeah
well yeah i don't know if i yeah i mean
probably start off with the arduino here
because i want like a uh like a
dashboard as well because i'm
i have a device that monitors the ph of
the water
the um that oh what else the temperature
yeah but like that is very expensive
for whatever rudimentary like basic
data like you could just get like an lcd
or an oled yeah as in like i already
know that device is like a
like a sensor node and it's already i
already have it it's like in the water
it monitors it but i can't like read the
output
like
set this up as a dashboard as well like
on top of the aquarium so you can like
see the stats you make like real time
graph
yeah so yeah that's something i think
node red can do that
uh
oh that's right we can set the interval
here
for the data
i don't think there's a um
limit in red red
so now if i
go
[Music]
changed isn't it didn't you have 23
yeah i'm just saying like this should
change every five
yeah but seconds just clicked refresh
yeah like
okay no as in like even if i refresh
wasn't
five seconds right
like where are we looking if you look at
the light for example yeah but if you do
that now
refreshing it's been five seconds so it
should change
let me put a flashlight on it
wait a flashlight oh yep
now put it on so i should wait at least
five seconds
okay five seconds
okay yeah it's not it's definitely not
five seconds
it's something else
yeah i don't know i wouldn't trust this
pipeline
ah here we go maybe
cool what did you adjust before then
what were you what did you
set it was the cloud config
that was also 30 seconds wasn't it yeah
but i changed it to find
yeah yeah so maybe if they're in sync
now
so yeah let's go back and then turn your
password off back one again
i'll just wait for it to go back to
[Music]
okay and i'll probably wait like 10
seconds because you gotta let it go to
the pipeline
right well you keep refreshing as well
get you out paid right now there we go
i don't know that was like before yeah
yeah i think it might have to do with
the pipeline like as in how it's got to
go
up to the server and then the server is
going to render it um
but yeah it was faster than before so
it's probably just those two
you're on the right track okay it says
we need to create some roots easier to
start installing yes
okay
great
uh
oh there we go it created some routes
and there's a node that the um center
tail
cool
you're gonna try and see if you can see
the no red server on your own
laptop
yeah i should be able to yeah
yep
well they've given us a json file
we have
actually this
what the
this is the worst formatting i've ever
seen
do you know what all this stuff is
nowhere are we looking sorry i was on a
different page while you're doing all
this
um i'm just setting up this
uh mqtt json file
uh are you asking what the file was
yeah like what's all the stuff that
they've yeah uh i think it might
configure all the nodes
so those things in the left-hand side uh
nodes
and this is like you can export your
node layout so even though it's
graphical
when you export it it exports
like them it's it's programmatic this
what the node should be yeah i i would
imagine so that's what that's what a
flow is
so if you click import it should um spit
out a bunch of nodes i would assume yeah
right
yeah so this would be how to get your
data
and then i'd assume he'd have a
javascript on
certain nodes and then you can just um
fiddle either like chuck your own
pipeline in or
draw off his or however you want to do
it
yeah the ui chart might be a problem i
don't it looks like there's an error
with that so the dashboard wouldn't work
i would assume i think i think i have to
install it
yeah i think you'll
be here
i'm probably just on google it's been a
while
so um
install
yeah no great dashboard red dashboard
yeah
where do i type that do i type in
locally um install
use the menu manage palette so where's
menu
menu all right
yeah and it's
what is it yeah no red dashboard
just drive dashboard oh maybe
no maybe this is your existing so if you
go install
all right yep yeah bingo
and i think you have to terminate your
terminate your session and then re-run
it for it too
um no red boot up
i want that
sweet
i know it updated dynamically oh okay
that's neat
all right so click
um how do i see that arrow
uh where's the bug it's the now the
debug console is the one next to the
picture of the bug right yeah okay
click on one of the packets
probably one with this is five or
something here
okay um open up
that uh document what's the expression
you see
zoom in on it i can't see why i can't
see what the number is
what's this meant to be spitting it says
disable the thing anyway um
okay uh i would be uh
how do you i'm just trying to remember
how you actually open the dashboard
um oh here we go
that's it the little arrow
um
dashboard
if you get some ui notes
yeah i think this might have been the
how do i stop the deployment
um but here stop running the server
uh like command command line your script
uh
terminal in um
yeah all right is this real trust i just
saw an update
yeah it's updating
yeah every five seconds yeah i'm
counting five seconds
yeah you can see it it says that in the
uptime
where uh if you or you see the uptime it
says uptime
up up the second line yeah now if you go
into the last packet it would gain
um it should say 84 taco before that was
like 70 right
okay so you can see that it was five
seconds
it's still deployed
it shouldn't be close that close the um
once you deploy there's no way back
queen
currently you can't stop a flow from the
editor
yeah this is the console it's just like
i said close the close
the browser and then just reopen and
then run the server again
it might just be a ui thing in terms of
it won't
when you stop running on the raspberry
pi i assume it might not update there
okay so what does this say oh still
getting packets
did you rerun it again yeah
in raspberry pi right yeah you
just didn't see you run the node red
console again oh you got a video
um i don't know why when you open that
did you go go to that um go to that uh
you had a document open is it gonna go
yeah make sure that it's got the hash uh
like dash
like uh ui zero
[Music]
no try clicking on the um
node itself and seeing if you can
on the flow
yes no
the actual adc node
uh next one across
what's it got written
unassigned
hmm i wouldn't do that
let me just look at this what maybe i
didn't see something
um i'm just trying to read
um
so what are these num what is five
is that the number we're getting from no
i don't think so hey like
what's the size coming from status
i think it might just be like the debug
is like five would be like
um like online functioning that would be
my guess because it says status
if you look iot environment status
jason i assume it might be just like a
pipeline thing to let you know
that it's because this is your debug
console it's literally just to tell you
things you're working on like
error messages going on is that right
where is this coming from
shouldn't it be coming from one of these
uh
like things one of the message failure
things yeah
how do i know which one it is um can we
see the javascript
how do i do that uh click on the actual
nodes and this should be
uh click on function click on the
function one
like a function node the flat orange
double click on it uh and
yeah okay all right i see um
yeah so but if you double click on
message.payload that doesn't come up
does it
no i think it's just literally spitting
out
all right why are these ones like
what's the screen thing and what's that
it might be on or off
for your debug console
so uh okay so
now nothing should show up uh turn on
the adc
function one turn on that
okay
do you know what this red thing i tried
dropping uh try running
this um url that i just put in
there
and then i would try
oh they're not configured okay
wait where'd you find that i'm assuming
that's what
i tried to deploy it and they're not
configured properly the charts
right how do i what's wrong is it
because of this
yeah this is where you're gonna have to
start doing your own research when
they'd read um
yeah there it'd be like
uh you you gotta i think you've gotta
design your own ui dashboard
and then you've gotta make sure it's
time to do that it's not funneling to it
i'm not actually with the actual mate
possibly because the update
yeah okay so that fixed it okay so let
me just
can i select multiple i
cannot remember
ah you can't okay
i'm trying
let's see what happens
yeah it's all right it's not going to
come up as a graph it's just the group
you're putting it under
like your own yeah
oh here we go yeah
so you'll have to like start looking at
styling but it looks like it's
adjusting yeah
so that's every five
seconds
wait 30 11 seconds down
yeah i think it's just yeah
yeah yeah live the other five seconds
this is sorry point is that you guys
what's adc
yeah i don't like the digital converter
um possibly the voltage
and this one's not showing hdc10
so
[Music]
right so if i put like my flash on here
your flashlight on yeah there we go
yeah cool oh
now it's time for your group to do some
yeah okay so now it's just how we
yeah i would i would i would start maybe
i would
from now i think it's good to have a
plan on how you
like a possibly a draw up because you
know what's capable
roughly now yeah i draw up usually what
you are in dashboard and then
possibly if you're gonna get them if
you're just gonna leave the pie running
in your like room yeah yeah um
i wouldn't suggest i probably i don't
know if i'd leave the servers running
it's up to you
i probably wouldn't to be honest um
yeah like like all of the six left hand
it doesn't really matter but i just i
probably would just
would save the power um i guess
that's up to you but my point is maybe
maybe write them up a sheet of the
commands they've got to run
to start all the services like the
servers if you're not going to leave it
running
yeah yeah do you know what i mean it's
just so you've got an easy terminal
uh tell them like in one turn i'll run
this command this says the traditional
aware
of what they have to start running yeah
otherwise because if you're going to
leave it on then you don't want to have
to be like hassled i guess
to like reboot it when they're quite
capable of doing it themselves
yeah i think the sensor needed like
obviously because it has
a battery i can't leave that on all the
time so yeah that's what i was going to
say like i probably wouldn't recommend
like
like usually those things are designed
to last a while
that's the point of it it's not going to
be tiny battery so it lasts a day
because these are designed to be
deployed
um for like like low power farming
networks this positive play for um so it
still lasts a while
but yeah i'd probably just
because i um i'm surprised i can it cuz
like in my opinion i would never use
something that's just
battery operated at least like with a
solar panel or something
like if it's an iot device
yeah well yeah yes or no um
usually a lot of these things it's
designed to be wait can you hear me
press my mic super fast yeah yeah okay
um usually these things are designed to
be kind of like
they're really focusing on like um stuff
like this they deploy
is like low current until and then it
wakes up like say once an hour
uses an ounce of energy like current to
get the data and then transmit it and
then go super deep sleep so it usually
like these some of these like nodes have
been like
designed so efficiently so they can last
like 10 years like a coincidental
battery
um it's just you usually opt for like
the solar stuff
when you want to ping a lot more um yeah
unless you had like a super
like low budget i don't know why someone
would not
go for something that's up like all the
time like why is energy a constraint
if you can just have a solar panel on
your thing like unless it's like a
costing or i don't know
like because i would always want best
yeah
i think i think it would be a cost thing
that's really uh
yeah and possibly sizing because if you
want to stick a small tag onto something
or something that's moving particularly
like like for animals or something if
you're sticking it like one sticky small
tag
like that's and you wanted to boot up
like every
like hour you're the bigger you get the
more pop moving parts
and like a solar panel you probably want
a chunky solar panel like a decent size
so it can get a bit of sunlight on it so
i can actually
charge your battery because if you're
going to like a huge like a tiny solar
panel
um i mean you've seen those you've seen
those solar-powered calculators right
they have the same batteries in them as
this
sensor tag and they have a tiny ass
solar panel at the top and it works so
yeah um yeah i feel like there's a
design because that's like
like that's that's super low power
because the calculator is literally just
like a very like
small lcd screen and then it's just mcu
in the background
yeah and then whereas this like it's
it's it uses the problem is the bit more
power
that you need for the actual
transmission if you needed like a
like a solid push of like a solid draw
of courage
um yeah yeah i guess there's pros and
cons to it you know i mean you can
always look it up
um but yeah yeah it'd be mainly budget
and sizing constraints
um before you're doing but like
you can see like some of the um cattle
trackers like you've got like cow
trackers
um they've been designed with solar
panels integrated them
really yeah yeah what's called like a
cow truck
um just okay images um
well it's not uh look up i know i know
for one for sure
uh let me let me get your link
yeah here you go um i'll drop it in zoom
yeah um your teammate uh
what gave you a little explanation as
well because you need a lot of extra
electronics
so it's not just it's also sliding the
circuit board because you need
converters to give a steady current
because you need to
because uh because a solar he's right
he's solo isn't like a solid
um constant voltage
it's always fluctuating um and you need
it right
yes um so it does come at a cost but it
really like it is like there's pros and
cons you gotta weigh it up depends what
you really designed for
um but yeah that's an example
so in this situation though like
let me see the actual so it's called
uh that's on the top i don't see the
actual specifications of this
uh i don't think they'd release
so it uses wi-fi
actually yes yeah laura yeah
is laura like a different laura laura
laura would be what you're using for
lopez so laura is low long range
it's a like a low bandwidth um long
range kind of network so you can small
stores like packets of like so like
bytes of data like the temperature and
stuff or the
i did this for a project so laura like
what i was i was making cattle tracker
and like it's still the gps coordinates
and then it'll transmit it as long as
it's line of sight it can transmit from
anywhere
up to 20 k's up to like there's been
some tests 500 k's
um in super good conditions but like um
it's
like 100 kilometers yeah if you look up
laura
the longest laura transmission yeah
that's super ideal conditions though
like
you're talking like uh a gateway in the
sky
but like like so okay so
in this cattle tracking thing where
would be the sink
where would be the stink like where
would the data go yeah
you'd have a gateway on a super like an
antenna on the super 12 hole probably
close to the house
and then you'd have the data funnel into
a gateway um
at the house to a server and then you
can manipulate there
or if you just or you can keep it all
local and then you'd have
like let's say a farmer he or she like
had a gateway
in an or another node it'll just receive
the data and
go on their own dashboard right
yeah these seem super high-end they
don't seem cheap
uh no like it really depends like this
company is a very like
high-end professional but like again
like farmers make a
healing amount of money and anything
that saves time on them
like you can imagine if someone's got
like you know 20 kilometers by 20
kilometers of like flat
like land they have cattle on and they
have to go vaccinate a certain car
or check that they're not sick what's
more what's going to use more time like
these guys have got helicopters to fly
around and find
certain cattle like you're just going to
work out what's cheaper like buying a
couple of nodes that you keep on
and that way you can we'll give you the
gps coordinates of this cattle and then
you just go find it or do you spend half
your day looking for that calf
like it's all the way up different use
cases
okay so has a one-year
non-replaceable battery wait what so do
they force you to buy another one every
year
i would assume that's a good way to make
money
well these guys are usually um
approached
and then they make they make they're
approached by a client and they'll make
something and they'll typically
commercialize it a little bit more to of
like outreach
other people yeah sure enough
okay so now i guess for this we just
have to customize the dashboards or
whatever we want
and then yeah like for the like
you've done like most of the hardware
you what your group members should be
doing now
is i guess like the dashboard you've
already got the like they shouldn't just
try and make it pretty because that
won't take too long you should try to be
focusing on
i guess making something useful out of
it
like what what you've got all that those
sensor data what can can you do
some historic like historical thing can
you do some analytics
can you do some prediction i don't know
how advanced you guys are if you're a
soccer group or not
um but like just a bit more of like
like a designer a dashboard for a use
case
right it doesn't actually have to be for
the use case like if you do like i'm
just using the smartphone because it's
easy you can just say like temperature
like predicted rain
but it doesn't actually have to you know
um yeah you don't actually have to put
it out on the farm and predict rain like
you're doing it indoors but just give it
a use case
um and like design it that way
right okay because you're trying to make
a purposeful like
like wireless sensor network understand
the subject that's why the assignment
one is trying to like
pick your pick your project in terms of
like this is this is the method
now what's your project and how you're
gonna execute this
oh this is cool so you can actually set
up like a twitter bot
and push like yeah you can
yeah yeah you drop like i had i had
things like when i dropped like
um nodes to my email when like like
before i added a fire controller with
this
so like i had a wire like an up to a
server and like
um you like obviously like if you you're
like you're like temperature control
and so if your um is going over
threshold temperature you just send an
email or a tweet like whatever you use
some of your phones like set the
notifications like alert
um you can have a little buzz they'll be
like yo your things like overheating
slowly or something
um it's a good way to monitor things um
if you don't want to select because that
way you don't have to actually sit on
the dashboard all day
you can just email yourself yeah
i want to just see what the range uh
i think we are using singles right yeah
no no we're using the open so it's right
in the first line 10
10 to 100 meters so they apparently the
low pin is
uh wireless network low power wireless
network so it's
wi-fi right so sig thanks and laura
wanna
like proprietary versions of six eleven
six floater
yeah yeah they're very designated
frequencies with special transmission
constraints like they've got like like
they've got their own like
hidden protocols and stuff so it's very
like like a very nifty
implementation okay so range is a
hundred and sixteen
meters so like what i would say from
this
all right meters yeah yeah
so you can put it okay so it can go
through walls and stuff it's not like
pretty
it no depends like
a lot of this uh it really depends it's
like like if you
if you have wi-fi in your house and you
go like to a back bedroom
it starts to like the signal starts to
break down so it really depends on like
it again like it's like it depends how
much your medium
absorbs of the signal yeah this is the
exact issue that because
before like because you're doing
engineering right
yep yeah so like my
first internship which i'm still working
with them now they kept me on
uh the network team at uts
so that was my first internship and
i'm still there now and basically when
building two opened
we had to do a lot of rf frequency
monitoring for the
building to uh hive super light um
yeah right you need about 400 surface
pros streaming in real time
and yeah that's
crazy like yeah so like i spent so we
spent so much time
like fixing everything and then cover it
happen and no one even used the freaking
thing
and then like now that's good yeah
yeah i mean at the end of the day like
your company got paid the money for it
so
like that's all they're focused about
like i guess it's good to know for you
that people are using it it's a good
like feel good thing the other day your
company made the money off of it
regardless what's used or not
i mean um but yeah it's crazy how like
like all these frequencies are
everywhere for everything you've got
radio frequencies you've got mobile
phones you've got bluetooth on different
frequencies
and they're all like not interrupting
each other it's insane how like data can
get wirelessly from one point
yeah yeah do you think we should
uh just focus on a use case for now and
design dashboard or do you think we
should
buy extra sensors to do other stuff or
what do you think
uh i would i would have a chat with your
team
and work out um
work out what you want to do um if you
if you do another sensor you're going to
have to
probably get a um
uh like workout like i'm not this is
an area i'm not familiar when i did the
fire controller
i had to um uh so you plug your
sensors in by the gpio reports and then
set up a pipeline using python
um and then get it uh like
uh try and pick up the payload from the
raspberry pi itself
um and then push it to the server so i'm
not too sure
how to go right i mean the sensors have
to be compatible with the
low power network and the launch pad no
no no no
um or like
depend work out what you want to do
first i would try and see if you can
make a use case without doing the senses
if you want to go advanced um i'd
probably have to i'll have to talk to
you and explain um there's a class about
it and i've got to go home
um all right have a chat with you i do
um if you're
if you if you can make a use case of
what it says you've already got
um that'll be the easy part if you want
to excel
and try and work out a different thing
um i'd have to have a chat but like
again if you want to do your own senses
in
addition that would make sense if you
want to do your own senses on your own
then you kind of
now are missing low power network and
you have to look into ble and that would
mean everything you've done thus far is
redundant for
the low pin stuff yep makes sense yeah
i'll have a chat with my team then
um at least i got this up and running so
that's good
it really depends how much work you're
gonna make yourself if you wanna if you
wanna leave the hardware now then you
know you're gonna have to stick to those
sensors
um and maybe add a couple more on gpio
um and do it that way uh but yeah have a
charity team
okay that's fine well thanks for today
then
oh good i'm glad we got all the way up
to here you did it man
um anyway that's the end of lab for this
week i'll see you guys next week
everyone in here see ya bye
that's your video
okay
uh
so
laughs
hmm